---
layout: post
title: "PI Campus Summer School of AI"
categories: misc
---

A little over three weeks ago I got to know that I had gotten into a summer school of AI. It is hosted by PI Campus, a Rome based YCombinator. Things moved fast and I have already spent two weeks here. The campus is an assortment of villas in EUR district in the south of Rome. The school itself is in the biggest one and is a repurposed villa built by a former minister who got sent to prison for mafia ties. The garage has been turned into a canteen, the living room into a study area, and a behind-the-bookshelf hidden room into a resting area.

I am not going to talk about the other students too much but they are an assortment of experienced professionals and academics as well as younger people most of whom are finishing, but some starting, their university degrees.

The school is project based which means here that the first two weeks were full of classes and tutorials. Some were given by the staff but some by the students. In the beginning, each of a few topics, like Python, AWS and a few more, got assigned a czar that would be responsible for assisting other students and holding a workshop. I was appointed Python czar and to much success I gave a tutorial on good Python practices for DS (found here) along with my project partner who addressed good numpy practices.

Although I am not allowed to talk about the project, I can talk about the work that goes into it. For now it is a binary classification problem and I will write about our progress here and thoughts on various aspects of data science. I will write about some ideas the organisers are trying to install in us, as this is not just set up as an in-person Coursera course. They are both training us to approach problems in a way where a solution would be helpful, and not just a way to apply your favorite algorithm.