---
layout: post
title: "Recent developments in Jupyter notebooks"
categories: misc
---

In an attempt to adapt a more serious looking workflow, I have at times tried adapting whatever Python IDE I have come across. Spyder has to be the most memorable and the one I actually used for some time but I have always reverted back to the iPython console and Sublime. There might be reasons for why that is not the best way to code but for data science at least, I find that it allows for quick debugging, syntax checking and development. In PI School we have been presented with some new-ish developments I was completely oblivious of.

I have regularly come across articles that reference Jupyter or use Jupyter notebooks for presenting your findings. I would agree that notebooks are by far the most pleasing way to present a mix of text and code but I had (past tense nota bene) never found it good for working day to day. The first of the aforementioned developments is [Google's Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/notebooks). It is a free service from Google with Jupyter in the browser. They are not just notebooks that work on some server that is not your computer but they make uploading data easy as a breeze

```
from google.colab import files
uploaded = files.upload()
```

Which opens a tab where you can select the file you want to upload. Most libraries come preinstalled but if you are in want of something missing it is quick and easy

```
!pip install pyspark
```

(Pyspark does not come preinstalled for refernce). You can then download your data or your plots or whatever you are working on, even the code or notebook themselves. Each notbook has 50gb of memory and 12gb of ram so you cannot accuse them of skimping out on this. Why do they offer it for free? Why would I know? Will you stop offering free things and do something evil already Google!?

And I digress.

The other development is something I have now almost fully switched out my caveman-like practices for, Jupyter lab. It is a Python IDE which allows for whichever Python version you want, it has a console and text editors, really anything that using notebooks alone was missing. All the auto-fillins and easy navigation of a good IDE, the inline plotting and nice layout of notebooks and I think, but might be wrong, that the notebooks work faster than they did before. You could actually write production code there in a notebook as there is a conversion functionality that allows you to turn your notebook into normal Python code.

```
jupyter nbconvert --to script yournotebook.ipynb
```

As we AWS for most projects in PI School, I have set my EC2 instance to allow for port 8888 ...to have access... (I am really not sure how this works), anyway I have a notebook running on my EC2 instance and displaying in my browser! Fantastic work from the good creators of Jupyter.